# Migrating from AFJ 0.1.0 to 0.2.x

## Breaking Code Changes

> TODO

## Breaking Storage Changes

The 0.2.0 release is heavy on breaking changes to the storage format. This is not what we intend to do with every release. But as there's not that many people yet using the framework in production, and there were a lot of changes needed to keep the API straightforward, we decided to bundle a lot of breaking changes in this one release.

Below all breaking storage changes are explained in as much detail as possible. The update assistant provides all tools to migrate without a hassle, but it is important to know what has changed.

See [Updating](./updating.md) for a guide on how to use the update assistant.

The following config can be provided to the update assistant to migrate from 0.1.0 to 0.2.0:

```json
{
  "v0_1ToV0_2": {
    "mediationRoleUpdateStrategy": "<mediationRoleUpdateStrategy>"
  }
}
```

### Credential Metadata

The credential record had a custom `metadata` property in pre-0.1.0 storage that contained the `requestMetadata`, `schemaId` and `credentialDefinition` properties. Later a generic metadata API was added that only allows objects to be stored. Therefore the properties were moved into a different structure.

The following pre-0.1.0 structure:

```json
{
  "requestMetadata": <value of requestMetadata>,
  "schemaId": "<value of schemaId>",
  "credentialDefinitionId": "<value of credential definition id>"
}
```

Will be transformed into the following 0.2.0 structure:

```json
{
  "_internal/indyRequest": <value of requestMetadata>,
  "_internal/indyCredential": {
    "schemaId": "<value of schemaId>",
    "credentialDefinitionId": "<value of credential definition id>"
  }
}
```

Accessing the `credentialDefinitionId` and `schemaId` properties will now be done by retrieving the `CredentialMetadataKeys.IndyCredential` metadata key.

```ts
const indyCredential = credentialRecord.metadata.get(CredentialMetadataKeys.IndyCredential)

// both properties are optional
indyCredential?.credentialDefinitionId
indyCredential?.schemaId
```

### Mediation Record Role

The role in the mediation record was always being set to `MediationRole.Mediator` for both mediators and recipients. This didn't cause any issues, but would return the wrong role for recipients.

In 0.2 a check is added to make sure the role of a mediation record matches with actions (e.g. a recipient can't grant mediation), which means it will throw an error if the role is not set correctly.

Because it's not always possible detect whether the role should actually be mediator or recipient, a number of configuration options are provided on how the role should be updated using the `v0_1ToV0_2.mediationRoleUpdateStrategy` option:

- `allMediator`: The role is set to `MediationRole.Mediator` for both mediators and recipients
- `allRecipient`: The role is set to `MediationRole.Recipient` for both mediators and recipients
- `recipientIfEndpoint` (**default**): The role is set to `MediationRole.Recipient` if their is an `endpoint` configured on the record. The endpoint is not set when running as a mediator. There is one case where this could be problematic when the role should be recipient, if the mediation grant hasn't actually occurred (meaning the endpoint is not set). This is probably the best approach
  otherwise it is set to `MediationRole.Mediator`
- `doNotChange`: The role is not changed

Most agents only act as either the role of mediator or recipient, in which case the `allMediator` or `allRecipient` configuration is the most appropriate. If your agent acts as both a recipient and mediator, the `recipientIfEndpoint` configuration is the most appropriate. The `doNotChange` options is not recommended and can lead to errors if the role is not set correctly.

### Extracting Did Documents to Did Repository

The connection record previously stored both did documents from a connection in the connection record itself. Version 0.2.0 added a generic did storage that can be used for numerous usages, one of which is the storage of did documents for connection records.

The migration script extracts the did documents from the `didDoc` and `theirDidDoc` properties from the connection record, updates them to did documents compliant with the did core spec, and stores them in the did repository. By doing so it also updates the unqualified dids in the `did` and `theirDid` fields generated by the indy-sdk to fully qualified `did:peer` dids compliant with the [Peer DID Method Specification](https://identity.foundation/peer-did-method-spec/).

To account for the fact that the mechanism to migrate legacy did document to peer did documents is not defined yet, the legacy did and did document are stored in the did record metadata. This will be deleted later if we can be certain the did doc conversion to a `did:peer` did document is correct.

The following 0.1.0 connection record structure (unrelated keys omitted):

```json
{
  "did": "BBPoJqRKatdcfLEAFL7exC",
  "theirDid": "N8NQHLtCKfPmWMgCSdfa7h",
  "didDoc": <legacyDidDoc>,
  "theirDidDoc": <legacyTheirDidDoc>,
}
```

Will be transformed into the following 0.2.0 structure (unrelated keys omitted):

```json
{
  "did": "did:peer:1zQmXUaPPhPCbUVZ3hGYmQmGxWTwyDfhqESXCpMFhKaF9Y2A",
  "theirDid": "did:peer:1zQmZMygzYqNwU6Uhmewx5Xepf2VLp5S4HLSwwgf2aiKZuwa"
}
```

### Migrating to the Out of Band Record

With the addition of the out of band protocol, invitations are now stored in the `OutOfBandRecord`. In addition a new field `invitationDid` is added to the connection record that is generated based on the invitation service or did. This allows to reuse existing connections.

The migration script extracts the invitation and other relevant data into a separate `OutOfBandRecord`. By doing so it converts the old connection protocol invitation into the new Out of band invitation message. Based on the service or did of the invitation, the `invitationDid` is populated.

The following 0.1.0 connection record structure (unrelated keys omitted):

```json
{
  "invitation": {
    "@type": "https://didcomm.org/connections/1.0/invitation",
    "@id": "04a2c382-999e-4de9-a1d2-9dec0b2fa5e4",
    "recipientKeys": ["E6D1m3eERqCueX4ZgMCY14B4NceAr6XP2HyVqt55gDhu"],
    "serviceEndpoint": "https://example.com",
    "label": "test"
  }
}
```

Will be transformed into the following 0.2.0 structure (unrelated keys omitted):

```json
{
  "invitationDid": "did:peer:2.Ez6MksYU4MHtfmNhNm1uGMvANr9j4CBv2FymjiJtRgA36bSVH.SeyJzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9leGFtcGxlLmNvbSJ9",
  "outOfBandId": "04a2c382-999e-4de9-a1d2-9dec0b2fa5e4"
}
```
